FORTE AGENT UNDER WINE - EXPERIENCE REPORT

Combined guide, Debian recipes and experimental POP source:
https://github.com/LDighera/forte-agent-wine

Start with the repository README.md. The build/install procedure is
docs/DEBIAN12.md; its scripts and package list are in debian/. Portable
POP receiving is a separate stage described in pop-bridge/USAGE.md.
This text records the working host, not a turnkey installer or proof
of the portable package on a fresh machine. Packaging references were
updated September 20, 2026; the host observations remain as recorded.

Several readers asked how I got Forte Agent working under Linux. Here
are the components and the practical sequence that worked here, plus
an important distinction between running Agent and reproducing our
mail-retrieval arrangement.

This work was made possible through my collaboration with OpenAI
Codex. Codex did the investigation, build and integration work; I
exercised Agent and checked its behavior on the desktop. The Wine fix
itself is upstream Wine work, not a patch invented by Codex.

1. The combination actually tested

The working application is my licensed Forte Agent 8.00.32.1272,
running on Debian 12 Bookworm with a KDE/X11 desktop. Its existing
mail/news archive was about 28 GiB when migrated from Windows. This
is not just a successful installation with an empty database.

The runtime is a private, side-by-side build of Wine 11.14, using
new WoW64 support for the 32-bit application, with one upstream fix
added. Program and profile storage are on native Linux ext4. Wine
and Agent run as my ordinary desktop user, never as root.

I have not tested this recipe on Linux Mint and do not plan to do so.
I am also not claiming that the newest Wine release needs rebuilding:
the version described here is the specific combination we tested.

2. The Wine fix and build details

Our Wine 11.14 source includes this exact upstream commit:

a1bae27f21b53fa3ac6be6b08f4cbfb441360ade

Its title is "win32u: Don't ignore raw mouse input." It addresses Wine
bug 59986. The change is in dlls/win32u/input.c. Our failing sessions
had enormous numbers of unknown-input-message diagnostics; successful
interactive sessions followed the corrected build. This does not prove
that every earlier retrieval crash had that same cause.

The upstream change, including its complete diff, is here:
https://github.com/wine-mirror/wine/commit/a1bae27f21b53fa3ac6be6b08f4cbfb441360ade

Wine's bug reference is:
https://bugs.winehq.org/show_bug.cgi?id=59986

For someone reproducing that exact build, the sequence is: obtain the
official Wine 11.14 source, apply the referenced change, configure in
a separate empty build directory, build, and install into a separate
Wine installation directory. Do not overwrite the distribution Wine.
The following are build-setting references, not a complete command:

--enable-archs=i386,x86_64
--with-mingw=clang
--prefix=<the separate Wine installation directory>

We used Debian's Clang/LLD/LLVM 14 for the Windows PE targets. The
LLVM tools, including llvm-dlltool, mattered. An earlier GCC/MinGW
build failed in oleaut32's VarR4FromUI8; switching that build path
to Clang avoided it. Normal Wine build prerequisites, including
the relevant development libraries, Bison and Flex, are still needed.
These three configure settings are not a complete package-dependency
list for another distribution.

Building in the intended build directory matters: do not run configure
from your home directory by accident. Both patched and unpatched builds
can report "wine-11.14", so that version string alone does not establish
whether the fix is present. Do not apply it twice to a newer source tree
which already contains it.

3. Preserve the profile, then establish offline operation

For reproduction, work on your own Linux desktop as your ordinary
user. Keep the source Agent installation closed while making its
backup/copy, and keep that original untouched. Stop if the source
cannot be closed cleanly or the backup cannot be verified.

Use a separate Wine prefix and explicitly select the intended Wine
executable and its matching wineserver. Our working configuration uses
WINEARCH=wow64; it is not an instruction to change the architecture
of an existing prefix. The original Agent installer was used, and
Wine Gecko 2.47.4 x86 was installed in the setup we carried forward.
No need for Microsoft .NET was demonstrated for the tested functions.

Our executable is under the prefix's Program Files (x86)/Agent, while
the data is under its Windows user's AppData/Roaming/Forte/Agent.
Determine the corresponding data location in your own installation;
do not assume that copying the program directory also copies the mail.

Preserve the whole data directory, not just selected DAT files. Keep
indexes, account settings, filters and mail UID tracking together.
Use an independent writable copy, not hard links to your only backup.
Check both the copy and your desktop user's access to its parent
directories before launching. Do not let Windows and Wine write the
same store concurrently.

The first launch should have provider access blocked independently
of Agent's remembered settings. In that isolated session, check old
folders and readable messages, then close normally. Stop if Agent
opens the wrong profile, unexpectedly asks to create a new account,
or hangs. Do not use the live archive as a succession of experiments.

For reference, our launcher sets WINEDLLOVERRIDES to
"mscoree=d;winemenubuilder.exe=d". That disables CLR loading and Wine's
automatic menu generation. It is a setting used here, not a claim that
every Agent installation needs those overrides.

4. Usenet: what worked, and what the relay does

Giganews header retrieval, article-body retrieval, composition and
posting have worked. My earlier progress article was posted from
Agent under Wine and retrieved afterward; this was real Usenet, not
a local simulation.

We retained my existing Giganews account and used port 119 without
encryption by my choice. That test does not qualify encrypted NNTP.
Unencrypted NNTP can expose authentication and article traffic on the
network; it is not a universal recommendation for other readers.

Our Agent process is network-isolated, so a standard socat byte relay
provides its selected news connection. It is an access path, not an
OAuth adapter or an NNTP implementation. Its use here does not prove
that Agent requires a news proxy in an ordinary Wine installation.

For a first online test on your own setup, retrieve headers and one
body from an existing subscription before considering a post. Verify
the group and message type: posting to a newsgroup and emailing a copy
are separate operations. Inspect old Outbox items first; do not use
Send All as a connectivity test. Stop on an error or an ambiguous send
result and check whether the article appeared before attempting a retry.

5. Mail: the substantial extra component

Our current POP arrangement is custom. Agent connects to local POP
servers; native Linux helpers connect to the real providers using
certificate-verified TLS. This kept the provider-facing protocol work
outside Agent while preserving Agent's existing local archive.

On each poll, the helpers inventory the server's UIDL/LIST snapshot,
compare retained delivery tracking and offer untracked messages to
Agent. Bodies are fetched on demand rather than loading the whole
mailbox into memory. Completed delivery is recorded for subsequent
polls and sessions. Agent continues to apply its local routing filters.

The current safeguards allow up to 1,000 messages and 256 MiB per
account per poll, with a 10 MiB limit per message and ten polls per
session. Thus "all new mail" still means within those bounds; another
successful poll can continue remaining work. Oversized messages are
left on the server. The old ten-message-per-account restriction no
longer describes this launcher. A September 17 session committed 333
messages and closed with all acceptance checks passing.

Keeping server messages is deliberate. The upstream helper does not
implement POP DELE, and the local side rejects deletion requests.
Account-level "leave on server" settings alone were not sufficient:
some existing filters had their own deletion overrides. Those
overrides were cleared without removing the routing rules and have
not been restored. Our no-delete policy takes precedence.

This is not something a generic TLS tunnel automatically supplies.
The repository now includes experimental portable POP source, an offline
account-setup helper and a Debian launcher. Read pop-bridge/USAGE.md
for its account/history mapping, limits and normal-close behavior.
Synthetic tests passed, but the portable combination has not yet been
qualified with live mail. It is not the complete host deployment:
SMTP/NNTP relays are not packaged, and a site-specific launch command
still needs to be prepared. The basic Agent install/open helper does
not automatically activate POP isolation or no-delete enforcement.

6. Sending and remaining limitations

An AT&T plain-text SMTP test sent from Agent was received successfully.
The connection used Agent's existing TLS/login settings through a byte
relay to the selected SMTP service. This establishes that tested path,
not all providers, attachments, BCC handling or every TLS combination.
Hotmail's OAuth requirement has not been integrated into our bridge.

My original Usenet article posted successfully while its added email
BCC failed. A failure of the email copy did not mean the news post
failed; blindly resending could have produced a duplicate article.

Some font/glyph rendering still needs attention. One separate incident
in which Subject and Author fields disappeared was traced to a full
temporary copy-on-write area in the test setup; the fields returned
after capacity was increased. We did not repair the message indexes.
Ordinary use now employs persistent disk-backed profile storage, not
that limited RAM overlay.

Likewise, a later news connection failure came from an expired local
test relay, not a demonstrated Giganews failure. The ordinary relay
now remains available for the Agent session's lifetime.

The large store initially made diagnosis difficult, but its size alone
was not a sufficient explanation. We have retained and used that same
archive rather than starting over with empty folders. Nothing here
claims that every message, binary-news feature, or attachment type has
been exhaustively tested.

7. What I suggest other readers report

If you try Agent under Wine, please give the Agent build, exact Wine
version and patch status, distribution, desktop/session type, whether
the profile is new or migrated, and the operation which fails. An
installer failure, an offline folder-navigation hang and a provider
authentication rejection are different problems.

The encouraging result is that my established Agent installation is
useful on Linux for mail and Usenet, including reading and posting.
The reusable foundation is the working Wine build plus careful
profile preservation. The provider bridges and remaining display
issues are separate pieces, not reasons to assume Agent itself
cannot run under Linux.

Larry
